Create monitoring.md (#357)
subspace/subspace-docs: versioned_docs/version-latest/monitoring.md

> addgroup --system grafana
adduser --system --home /usr/share/grafana --no-create-home --ingroup grafana --disabled-password --shell /bin/false grafana

> Plus is gives permissions for system user grafana to some folders.

### Start Server

```sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl start grafana-server
sudo systemctl status grafana-server

sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl start grafana-server
sudo systemctl status grafana-server
```
### Config
```
cd /etc/grafana
sudo vi garafana.ini
http_port=12345			# This is example. Here specify your custom SSH port (if set)
```
### Enter your Grafana Server

Get IP on your cloud server:
`ip -4 addr`  
From home PC:  
```
http://your-cloud-server-IP-address:12345
```

**In "Connections" section specify the same port as you will do in Prometheus.**

### Setup Jobs

```
job:
/subspacenode|subspaceserver/
```
:::note
The Dashboard for scraping metrics from Subspace Node is available on this [URL](https://github.com/counterpointsoftware/subspace-monitoring/blob/main/grafana/provisioning/dashboards/subspace-dashboard-counterpoint.json).  
To add it to your Grafana server just copy-paste the content.
:::
:::note

> For general server monitoring you can DL popular dashboard for Nodeexporter, named: Node Exporter full (most rated)

Reviewer: Let's add the link to that explorer, please :)

:::

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## 2. Installing Prometheus

Command-line flags configure immutable system parameters (such as storage locations, amount of data to keep on disk and in memory, etc.) 
Configuration file (yml) defines everything related to scraping jobs and their instances, as well as which rule file to load. Canonically should be in `/etc/prometheus`  
To view all available command-line flags, run `./prometheus -h`

The following commands must be ran as root.

### Create Group and User
```
sudo addgroup --system prometheus
sudo useradd -M -r -g prometheus -s /sbin/nologin prometheus
```

> > > -M: do not create user's home directory;	-r: create a system user;	-s /sbin/nologin: set user's shell as 'nologin';	-g prometheus - add to group 'prometheus'

Reviewer 2: Is the `> >` to add a quote within a quote what we actually want here? Feels like it should be a tip block or similar?

Prepare directories for settings and data:

```bash
sudo mkdir /etc/prometheus
sudo mkdir /var/lib/prometheus
sudo chown prometheus:prometheus /etc/prometheus
sudo chown prometheus:prometheus /var/lib/prometheus
```
### Download  
From [Prometheus homepage](https://prometheus.io/download) download the last versions of the binaries into home directory:
```bash
cd ~
wget -O prometheus https://prometheus.io/download/........
wget -O promtool https://prometheus.io/download/........
```
Extract archive:
```bash
tar xvfz prometheus-*.tar.gz
```
Copy binaries to `/usr/local/bin/`:
```bash
sudo cp prometheus /usr/local/bin/
sudo cp promtool /usr/local/bin/
```
Set permissions:
```bash
sudo chown prometheus:prometheus /usr/local/bin/prometheus
sudo chown prometheus:prometheus /usr/local/bin/promtool
```

Copy the consoles and console_libraries directories to `/etc/prometheus`.
```bash
sudo cp -r prometheus-2.0.0.linux-amd64/consoles /etc/prometheus			#folder name can vary
sudo cp -r prometheus-2.0.0.linux-amd64/console_libraries /etc/prometheus
```

> Set permissions:

Reviewer 2: Should be a code block.

	sudo chown -R prometheus:prometheus /etc/prometheus/consoles
	sudo chown -R prometheus:prometheus /etc/prometheus/console_libraries

Settings (`prometheus.yml`) will be in `/etc/prometheus/` :
```bash
sudo nano /etc/prometheus/prometheus.yml
sudo chown prometheus:prometheus /etc/prometheus/prometheus.yml
```

Remember to delete archives and all extracted files from home directory after distributing all components.

### Create a Service:
```
sudo nano /etc/systemd/system/prometheus.service
```
```
[Unit]
Description=Prometheus
Wants=network-online.target
After=network-online.target

[Service]
User=prometheus
Group=prometheus
Type=simple
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/prometheus \
    --config.file /etc/prometheus/prometheus.yml \
    --storage.tsdb.path /var/lib/prometheus/ \
    --web.console.templates=/etc/prometheus/consoles \
    --web.console.libraries=/etc/prometheus/console_libraries

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

### Manage Service Commands

```

> sudo systemctl daemon-reload			# run everytime any service has been changed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sudo systemctl daemon-reload			
# run everytime any service has been changed
```

sudo systemctl start prometheus
sudo systemctl status prometheus

> sudo systemctl enable prometheus		#autostart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sudo systemctl enable prometheus		
#autostart
```

sudo systemctl disable prometheus
```

### Prometheus.yml  
(Including the job for scraping Subspace node)

> Copy this lines into the file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Copy these lines into the file:
```

```
global:
  scrape_interval: 15s

scrape_configs:
  - job_name: "subspace"
    scrape_interval: 5s
    static_configs:
      - targets: ['localhost:9615']
  - job_name: "FarmerServer"
    static_configs:
      - targets: ["localhost:9100"]
  - job_name: 'any-other-your-job'
    static_configs:
      - targets: ['123.123.123.123:12345']

```
:::note

> Remember to allow connections between your cloud server and monitored servers at UFW on the appropriate ports. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Remember to allow connections between your cloud server and monitored servers in UFW on the appropriate ports. 
```

:::
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## 3. Node Exporter.

> ### Creat a User:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create a user:
```

```
sudo useradd -M -r -g prometheus -s /sbin/nologin node_exporter
```

> ### installing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Installing
```

From [Prometheus homepage](https://prometheus.io/download) download latest version of binary
Extract:
```bash
tar xvfz node_exporter-*-amd64.tar.gz
```

Copy binary:
```bash
cd node_exporter-*-amd64
sudo cp node_exporter-*md64/node_exporter /usr/local/bin
sudo chown node_exporter:node_exporter /usr/local/bin/node_exporter
```

### NodeExporter Service

```bash
sudo nano /etc/systemd/system/node_exporter.service
```
Copy-paste this into the file:
```
[Unit]
Description=Node Exporter
Wants=network-online.target
After=network-online.target

[Service]
User=node_exporter
Group=node_exporter
Type=simple
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/node_exporter

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

### Service Management
```
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl enable node_exporter

sudo systemctl start node_exporter
sudo systemctl status node_exporter
```
### Add NodeExporter to prometheus.yml

```bash
sudo nano /etc/prometheus/prometheus.yml
```
To the end of the file add this section:
```
  - job_name: 'node_exporter'
    scrape_interval: 5s
    static_configs:
      - targets: ['localhost:9100']
```

> We already did it , and the job named "FarmerServer"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We already did it by creating a job named "FarmerServer"
```

> We already did it , and the job named "FarmerServer"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that if you have been following the whole guide, this step was already taken above when we added the job named "FarmerServer".
```

------------------------------------------------------

## 4. Scraping Metrics from Subspace Node

The Subspace Node designed so that it provides it's metrics on port 9615.

> The following yaml file is designed to scrape Subspace Node metrics when the Node is ran in Docker.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following yaml file is designed to scrape Subspace Node metrics when the Node is run in Docker.
```

To use this: 

> 1) complete upper part of docker-compose.yml  and add:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Complete upper part of docker-compose.yml  and add:
```

```
    "--prometheus-external"
    "--prometheus-port", "9615"
```

> and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and then run
```

```

>             expose:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
expose:
```

>               - "9615:9615"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- "9615:9615"
```

```

> 2) complete lower part (grafana, prometheus and node exporter)

Reviewer: I don't understand the meaning here, what did you want to say?

### Docker-Compose.yml Template for Monitoring Subspace Node  

>  (the template is dated Sept. 25)

Reviewer: We can omit this note.

		
    > 
    version: "3.7"

    services:

    # ********************************************************************************
    # The following section should be copied from the official Subspace Docker Compose
    # guide at https://github.com/subspace/subspace/blob/main/docs/farming.md
    #*********************************************************************************

    node:
        container_name: subspace-node

>         # Replace `snapshot-DATE` with latest release (like `snapshot-2022-apr-29`)

Reviewer: Let's update the whole command for running a node to point to a newer release and gemini 3g to not confuse anyone. Thanks!

        expose:
        - 9100

    # ********************************************************************************
    # The above section defines the containers we need for the monitoring stack
    #*********************************************************************************

    volumes:
    # ********************************************************************************
    # These first two volumes are required by the default setup from the official
    # guide at https://github.com/subspace/subspace/blob/main/docs/farming.md
    #*********************************************************************************
    node-data:
    farmer-data:
    # ********************************************************************************
    # These next volumes are required by the monitoring solution
    #*********************************************************************************
    grafana_data:
    prometheus_data:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Example of Docker-compose.yml file for Monitoring  
(from Separate cloud Grafana Server)
		
		

> In this example Grafana use DataSource with Prometheus port: 9615

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example Grafana uses DataSource with Prometheus port: 9615
```
